Initial draft of guidance for developing an agent / host module (#205)
Azure/iot-identity-service: docs/develop-an-agent.md

**Differences with Edge modules**

[IoT Central](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-central/core/overview-iot-central) only supports Edge modules. It does not provide UI for arbitrary agents using a module identity to connect to Azure.

The Identity Service package does not provide non-Edge modules with higher-level capabilities that come with IoT Edge.

Edge modules are managed through the [IoT Edge runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-edge/about-iot-edge#iot-edge-runtime) which enables:
- Deploying cloud workloads to an edge device
- Monitoring the health of the deployed Edge modules
- Gathering and reporting runtime quality metrics
- Managing communication between Edge modules
- Remotely restarting a module or retrieving logs

## Prerequisites

[Install the `aziot-identity-service` package](installation.md) which installs the IS/KS/CS services.

Alternatively, [install IoT Edge v1.2 or later](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-edge/how-to-install-iot-edge?view=iotedge-2020-11). It includes the `aziot-identity-service` package as a dependency.

### Configuration for Provisioning

> For demonstration purposes we <u>m</u>anually <u>p</u>rovision the device with a connection string. However, the Identity Service can be configured to use any of the following methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demonstration purposes, we <u>m</u>anually <u>p</u>rovision the device with a connection string. However, the Identity Service can be configured to use any of the following methods.
```

1. manually using a connection string
1. manually using X.509 certificates
1. via DPS using X.509 certificates (self-signed or CA-signed)

> 1. via DPS using TPS attestation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. via DPS using TPM attestation
```

We'll use the `config mp` convenience command:

* If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_, then use the `iotedge` CLI.

    ```bash
    sudo iotedge config mp -c "<conn_string>"

    sudo iotedge config apply
    ```

* Otherwise, if only the _Identity Service_ is installed, use the more basic `aziotctl` CLI.

    ```bash
    sudo aziotctl config mp -c "<conn_string>"

    sudo aziotctl config apply
    ```

    > **Note**
    >
    > The `aziotctl` CLI isn't aware of IoT Edge and only provides a subset of functionality found in the `iotedge` CLI. Use the `iotedge` CLI when available.

#### Alternative Provisioning Methods

For the other provisioning methods, start by creating a config file. Modify it to set appropriate values and then apply the new configuration when you're done.

For example:

> * If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_ then use `/etc/aziot/config.toml.edge.template`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_, then use `/etc/aziot/config.toml.edge.template`.
```

A real-world example of handling this during package installation is in the `postinst` script for the [Device Update for IoT Hub package code](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/main/packages/debian/postinst). 

For simplicity, these steps are also illustrated using the bash commands below. They assume `mymodule` is the module identity the agent will use. The module runs under a `myuserid` user in group `mygroupid`.

```bash
# Get device identity information as root user.
# Create a new user for your host process, say myuserid:myuserid

groupadd -r myuserid

useradd -r -g myuserid -c 'Service user for <mymodule>' -s /sbin/nologin -d /var/lib/mymodule myuserid

# Add the new user to the three groups for talking to the three services.

usermod -aG aziotid myuserid
usermod -aG aziotcs myuserid
usermod -aG aziotks myuserid

# Register the host process principal with the identity service via a mymodule.toml registration entry added to the /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/ folder.

>/etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml cat <<-EOF
[[principal]]
uid = $(id -u myuserid)
name = "mymodule"
idtype = ["module"]
EOF

> # Set ownership of your registration entry to the identity service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Set ownership of your registration entry to the Identity Service
```

The table below summarizes the cases your agent must support when it has registered with IS to use the device identity or a module identity. 

| Identity Type | Authentication Type | Must Support |
| :---------------- | :-------------- | :-------------- |
| Device | Symmetric key (e.g. connection string) | SaS authentication |
| Device | X.509 certificates | Must support |
| Device | TPM attestation | N/A ? |
| Module | Symmetric key (e.g. connection string) | SaS authentication |
| Module | X.509 certificates | Not supported by IS (yet) |
| Module | TPM attestation | N/A |

If your agent uses a module identity (recommended) then the only method you **must** support is SaS authentication (i.e. using the symmetric key to sign a token and including it in a connection string). 

Although not required, we recommend future-proofing your agent by including the logic to support X.509 authentication. The Identity Service does not yet support X.509 authentication for modules. You can test your logic with a device identity. The practical differences in your implementation when using device versus module identity are negligible.

> The next sections use bash script to highlight the concepts of how to use the Identity / Keys / Cert services to connect to Hub. The [Device Update agent](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub-device-update/device-update-agent-provisioning) again serves as a real world example. It handles both authentication types. As part of it's startup sequence it retrieves the [provisioning information](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L755) and uses it to [create the client](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L485). In particular, the [RequestConnectionStringFromEISWithExpiry](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/utils/eis_utils/src/eis_utils.c#L397) utility function implements many of the concepts discussed in the next sections for SaS and X.509 authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next sections use bash script to highlight the concepts of how to use the Identity / Keys / Cert services to connect to Hub. The [Device Update agent](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub-device-update/device-update-agent-provisioning) again serves as a real world example. It handles both authentication types. As part of its startup sequence, it retrieves the [provisioning information](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L755) and uses it to [create the client](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L485). In particular, the [RequestConnectionStringFromEISWithExpiry](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/utils/eis_utils/src/eis_utils.c#L397) utility function implements many of the concepts discussed in the next sections for SaS and X.509 authentication.
```

### SaS authentication with a Connection String Walkthrough

> The sequence diagram and examples below shows the steps to create a signed token, the Shared Access Signature, and the final connection string to use with the C SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sequence diagram and examples below show the steps to create a signed token, the Shared Access Signature, and the final connection string to use with the C SDK.
```

<img src="img/operation-hostmodule-sas-sequence.svg"/>

> **Note**
>
> You'll find these same steps in the larger context of the [overall runtime operation detailed sequence diagram](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/main/docs/img/est-ca-runtime-operation-detailed.svg) as the "Host-level modules process operations" segment; specifically (lines 17-30).

It's instructive to try these manually. Create a dummy registration with IS for `mymodule` that authorizes the root user to call the local REST APIs.

```bash
>/etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml cat <<-EOF
[[principal]]
uid = 0
name = "mymodule"
idtype = ["module"]
EOF

sudo chown aziotid:aziotid /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml

sudo chmod 0600 /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml
```

#### **Step 1** Get identity information

Send the request to the identity endpoint, `/run/aziot/identityd.sock`. Use the [`/identities/identity`](api/identity-service.md#get-primary-cloud-identity-for-authenticated-workload) REST API to retrieve the identity you previously registered for your process as part of installation.

If the connection is refused, retry after a few seconds.

> _Note_: To run the sample script below you may need to first install `jq` (e.g. `sudo apt install jq`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note_: To run the sample script below, you may need to first install `jq` (e.g. `sudo apt install jq`).
```

```bash
# Call IS as the root user to skip the need to add my user to the requisite security groups for IS/KS/CS. 
identity="$(sudo curl --unix-socket '/run/aziot/identityd.sock' 'http://identityd.sock/identities/identity?api-version=2020-09-01')" 

# From the response, retrieve the hubName, gatewayHost, device and module identity, authentication type, and the key handle.
hub_name="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.hubName')"
gateway_host="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.gatewayHost')"
device_id="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.deviceId')"
module_id="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.moduleId // ""')"
auth_type="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.auth.type')"
key_handle="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.auth.keyHandle')"
```

> #### **Step 2** Build a bas64-encoded resource URI that expires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Step 2** Build a base64-encoded resource URI that expires
```

> Concatenate the URL encoded `resource_uri` with a desired expiry. The script below uses an expiry of 1 day from today. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Concatenate the URL-encoded `resource_uri` with a desired expiry. The script below uses an expiry of 1 day from today. 
```

> In the next step you generate the signed token to connect to IoT Hub by calling the Keys Service's `/sign` API and providing this string as the **message** parameter. The parameter must be a base64-encoded value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next step, you generate the signed token to connect to IoT Hub by calling the Keys Service's `/sign` API and providing this string as the **message** parameter. The parameter must be a base64-encoded value. 
```

> **Note**
>
> After expiry the client will be unable to connect using the generated SaS token. You will need to repeat the steps to build a new token and client based on a new expiry. This is not shown here.

More details on how the IoT Hub service interprets this signed message can be found in the docs on [Security tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-security#security-tokens). 

```bash

# URL-encode the resource of hub + device + module
# If we were doing this for the device identity, the resource_uri wouldn't include the '/modules/%s'
resource_uri="$(printf '%s/devices/%s/modules/%s' "$hub_name" "$device_id" "$module_id" | jq -sRr @uri)"

# Expiry of 1 day from today in Unix epoch time
expiry="$(bc <<< "$(date +%s) + 60 * 60 * 24")"

> # Full string to be signed is a base64 encoded string containing the URL encoded resource URI and the expiry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Full string to be signed is a base64-encoded string containing the URL-encoded resource URI and the expiry
```

```

#### **Step 3** Get a signed token from the Keys Service

Send a request to the Keys Service endpoint `/run/aziot/keyd.sock` to sign the base64-encoded value using the HMAC-SHA256 algorithm.

If the connection is refused, go back to Step 1 since IoT Hub device information could have changed.

Otherwise, parse the `signature` from the response.

```bash
# Parse and URL-decode the 'signature' from the response
signature="$(
    sudo curl --unix-socket '/run/aziot/keyd.sock' \
        -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' --data-raw "$(
            jq -cn --arg 'keyHandle' "$key_handle" --arg 'message' "$signature_data" '{
                "keyHandle": $keyHandle,
                "algorithm": "HMAC-SHA256",
                "parameters": {
                    "message": $message,
                },
            }'
        )" 'http://keyd.sock/sign?api-version=2020-09-01' |
        jq '.signature' -r |
        sed -e 's|+|%2b|g' -e 's|/|%2f|g' -e 's|=|%3d|g'
)"

# Construct the full SaS token
sas_token="$(printf 'sr=%s&se=%s&sig=%s' "$resource_uri" "$expiry" "$signature")"
```

#### **Step 4**: Create the full connection string

> The device may have been configured to connect directly to IoT Hub, or it may be connecting via a gateway. It's direct if the `gatewayHost` obtained previously in **Step 1** is the same as the `hubName`. If they differ then connection string should use the gateway host name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device may have been configured to connect directly to IoT Hub, or it may be connecting via a gateway. It's direct if the `gatewayHost` obtained previously in **Step 1** is the same as the `hubName`. If they differ, then connection string should use the gateway host name.
```

```bash
# Note that the 'SharedAccessSignature' appears both in the connection string and in the value for it.
sas="SharedAccessSignature $sas_token"

if [ "$hub_name" = "$gateway_host" ]; then
    # Connecting directly to Hub.
    echo "HostName=$hub_name;DeviceId=$device_id;ModuleId=$module_id;SharedAccessSignature=$sas"
else
    # Connecting via a gateway (e.g. in a nested configuration). Include the gateway name in the connection string.
    echo "HostName=$hub_name;DeviceId=$device_id;ModuleId=$module_id;SharedAccessSignature=$sas;GatewayHost=$gateway_host"
fi

```

#### **Step 5** Use the SDK to connect to IoT Hub

For example, use the C SDK's [IoTHubDeviceClient_LL_CreateFromConnectionString](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-c-sdk-ref/iothub-device-client-ll-h/iothubdeviceclient-ll-createfromconnectionstring) API to create a client from the connection string.

#### **Step 6** After disconnect

Repeat all steps starting from _Step 1_ above to re-connect.

### X.509 authentication for Modules

Currently, host processes using module identities can only authenticate against IoT Hub using the SaS authentication method. 

> It is beneficial that you include and validate X.509 authentication in the short term (by registering a device principal) so that module X.509 authentication could be easily supported in the future. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is beneficial that you include and validate X.509 authentication in the short term (by registering a device principal) so that module X.509 authentication can be easily supported in the future. 
```

#### Registering a Device Principal

Registering a device principal is similar to registering a module shown earlier. Instead of using an `idtype = module` it uses an `idtype = device`. This is an option that could be removed in the future, but is currently available for testing.

```bash
# This assumes myuserid has been added to the groups: aziotid, aziotks, aziotcs
>/etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/myagent.toml cat <<-EOF
[[principal]]
uid = $(id -u myuserid)
name = "hostprocess1"
idtype = ["device"]
EOF

sudo chown aziotid:aziotid /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/myagent.toml

sudo chmod 0600 /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/myagent.toml
```

#### TLS Authentication w/ Keys Stored in an HSM

> Since X.509 private keys are not exposed outside the Keys Service (e.g. may only exist in an HSM and never loaded into memory), an OpenSSL engine for the Keys Service is provided that can be used with the C SDK to enable processes to perform TLS authentication against IoT Hub. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
X.509 private keys are not exposed outside the Keys Service (e.g. may only exist in an HSM and never loaded into memory). An OpenSSL engine for the Keys Service that can be used with the C SDK to enable processes to perform TLS authentication against IoT Hub is provided. 
```

> Code snippet samples for using OpenSSL engines with the C SDK are available [here](https://github.com/azure/azure-iot-sdk-c/blob/master/iothub_client/devdoc/iothubclient_c_library.md#openssl-engine-examples). You can also see where its used in the implementation for the Device Update agent [here](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L518).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code snippet samples for using OpenSSL engines with the C SDK are available [here](https://github.com/azure/azure-iot-sdk-c/blob/master/iothub_client/devdoc/iothubclient_c_library.md#openssl-engine-examples). You can also see where it's used in the implementation for the Device Update agent [here](https://github.com/Azure/iot-hub-device-update/blob/7a6e4c12d54df7a92984e935c3050f35e359a342/src/agent/src/main.c#L518).
```

>
> Furthermore, two separate processes cannot simultaneously connect to Hub using the same identity. Unless you own the device and can guarantee that only your process will ever use the device identity, you should stick to using a module identity. 

**Differences with Edge modules**

[IoT Central](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-central/core/overview-iot-central) only supports Edge modules. It does not provide UI for arbitrary agents using a module identity to connect to Azure.

The Identity Service package does not provide non-Edge modules with higher-level capabilities that come with IoT Edge.

Edge modules are managed through the [IoT Edge runtime](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-edge/about-iot-edge#iot-edge-runtime) which enables:
- Deploying cloud workloads to an edge device
- Monitoring the health of the deployed Edge modules
- Gathering and reporting runtime quality metrics
- Managing communication between Edge modules
- Remotely restarting a module or retrieving logs

## Prerequisites

### Installation

The IS/KS/CS services are installed as part of the [aziot-identity-service package](../packaging.md). 

> **Note**
>

> > By design the package conflicts with the `iotedge` and `libiothsm-std` packages. If you're using `apt` to install the package it will prompt to remove the conflicting packages.  Otherwise, be sure to manually remove them before installing the Identity Service.

Reviewer: Mention that `iotedge` and `libiothsm-std` are the 1.1 packages. So people know that installing `aziot-identity-service` is a version upgrade (and not backwards compatible).

> #### Install using apt (Ubuntu 18.04 and Raspberry Pi OS Stretch)

Reviewer: Should we recommend using 20.04 (the latest version)? Or do we not have an apt repo for that?

Author: We have the apt repo, but we don't yet publish the packages for 20.04.  We would need to do that as part of moving it to be Tier 1 per my comment in https://github.com/Azure/iotedge/pull/4844#discussion_r635675466.

    sudo cp ./microsoft.gpg /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/
    ```

2. On Ubuntu 18.04

    ```bash
    curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/18.04/multiarch/prod.list > ./microsoft-prod.list
    sudo cp ./microsoft-prod.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
    ```

3. On Raspberry Pi OS Stretch

    ```bash
    curl https://packages.microsoft.com/config/debian/stretch/multiarch/prod.list > ./microsoft-prod.list
    sudo cp ./microsoft-prod.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
    ```

#### Install for an alternative distro / architecture

A pre-built package for alternative distributions / architectures is available with each release of IoT Edge (v1.2 and later). Download and install the `aziot-identity-service` package for your respective distro / architecture from [IoT Edge v1.2 release collateral](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iotedge/releases/tag/1.2.0).

Using Ubuntu 20.04 amd64 as an example:

```bash
wget https://github.com/Azure/azure-iotedge/releases/download/1.2.0/aziot-identity-service_1.2.0-1_ubuntu20.04_amd64.deb -o aziot-identity-service.deb

sudo apt install ./aziot-identity-service.deb
```

### Configuration for Provisioning

> For demonstration purposes we <u>m</u>anually <u>p</u>rovision the device with a connection string, but the identity service can be configured to using any of the following methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demonstration purposes we <u>m</u>anually <u>p</u>rovision the device with a connection string, but the Identity Service can be configured to using any of the following methods.
```

1. manually using a connection string
1. manually using X.509 certificates
1. via DPS using X.509 certificates (self-signed or CA-signed)
1. via DPS using TPS attestation

We'll use the `config mp` convenience command:

> * If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_ then use the `iotedge` CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_, then use the `iotedge` CLI.
```

    ```bash
    sudo iotedge config mp -c "<conn_string>"

    sudo iotedge config apply
    ```

> * Otherwise, if only the _Identity Service_ is installed use the more basic `aziotctl` CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Otherwise, if only the _Identity Service_ is installed, use the more basic `aziotctl` CLI.
```

    ```bash
    sudo aziotctl config mp -c "<conn_string>"

    sudo aziotctl config apply
    ```

    > **Note**
    >
    > The `aziotctl` CLI isn't aware of IoT Edge and only provides a subset of functionality found in the `iotedge` CLI. Use the `iotedge` CLI when available.

#### Alternative Provisioning Methods

For the other provisioning methods, start by creating a config file. Modify it to set appropriate values and then apply the new configuration when you're done.

For example:

> * If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_ then use the `/etc/aziot/config.toml.edge.template`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you have installed _IoT Edge v1.2+_, then use `/etc/aziot/config.toml.edge.template`.
```

    ```bash
    sudo cp /etc/aziot/config.toml.edge.template /etc/aziot/config.toml

    # make configuration edits
    nano /etc/aziot/config.toml

    sudo iotedge config apply
    ```

> * Otherwise, if only the _Identity Service_ is installed use the more basic `/etc/aziot/config.toml.template` that does not include any IoT Edge-specific configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Otherwise, if only the _Identity Service_ is installed, use the more basic `/etc/aziot/config.toml.template` that does not include any IoT Edge-specific configuration options.
```

    ```bash
    sudo cp /etc/aziot/config.toml.template /etc/aziot/config.toml

    # make configuration edits
    nano /etc/aziot/config.toml

    sudo aziotctl config apply 
    ```

### Verify the Install

> Use this curl command to quickly test that the Identity Service is working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this curl command to quickly test that the Identity Service is working.
```

```bash
# as the root user, get the device identity information  
sudo curl --unix-socket '/run/aziot/identityd.sock' 'http://identityd.sock/identities/identity?api-version=2020-09-01'
```

(note: this is a simplified version of the [e2e tests script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/main/ci/e2e-tests.sh)) 

## Client Authorization

Before your agent can connect to IS/KS/CS, it must be authorized. The authorization mechanism is based on OS users.
Only authorized OS user accounts are allowed to connect to the IS/KS/CS services. 

> Authorizing your host module involves the following steps which should be done as part of the installation process for your agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authorizing your host module involves the following steps, which should be done as part of the installation process for your agent.
```

# Set the registration entry to be -rw-------.
sudo chmod 0600 /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml
```

## Connecting Your Agent to IoT Hub

The logic to authenticate to Hub depends on the _authentication type_ of the identity you're agent uses. Currently (v1.2), the identity service only enables module identities that use symmetric key as their authentication type. 

The table below summarizes the cases your agent must support when it has registered with IS to use the device identity or a module identity. 

| Identity Type | Authentication Type | Must Support |
| :---------------- | :-------------- | :-------------- |
| Device | Symmetric key (e.g. connection string) | SaS authentication | SaS authentication |
| Device | X.509 certificates | Must support |
| Device | TPM attestation | N/A ? |
| Module | Symmetric key (e.g. connection string) | SaS authentication |
| Module | X.509 certificates | Not supported by IS (yet) |
| Module | TPM attestation | N/A |

If your agent uses a module identity (recommended) then the only method you must support is SaS authentication (i.e. using the symmetric key to sign a token and including it in a connection string). 

> However, it would still be beneficial to future-proof your agent by adding support for X509 authentication. You can test it with a device identity. This would allow you to easily enable it in the future for a module identity. The practical differences that would be required in your code between using a device and module identity would be marginal. Registering your agent to use the device identity will be shown later **\<TODO - Add a link to it\>**

Author: Agreed

## SaS authentication with a Connection String

The steps your agent must implement to create a signed token, the Shared Access Signature, and the final connection string to use with the C SDK, are shown below in the sequence diagram and followed by examples.

### Sequence diagram for runtime operations

<img src="img/agent-sas-sequence.png"/>

> To see these in a larger context please refer to the "Host-level modules process operations" segment, specifically (lines 17-30) of the [overall runtime operation detailed sequence diagram.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/main/docs/img/est-ca-runtime-operation-detailed.svg).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see these in a larger context, please refer to the "Host-level modules process operations" segment; specifically (lines 17-30) of the [overall runtime operation detailed sequence diagram.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/main/docs/img/est-ca-runtime-operation-detailed.svg).
```

### SaS Authentication Walkthrough

> It's instructive to try these manually. Create a dummy registration with IS for a `mymodule`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's instructive to try these manually. Create a dummy registration with IS for `mymodule`. 
```

```bash
>/etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml cat <<-EOF
[[principal]]
uid = 0
name = "mymodule"
idtype = ["module"]
EOF

sudo chown aziotid:aziotid /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml

sudo chmod 0600 /etc/aziot/identityd/config.d/mymodule.toml
```

> #### **Step 1** Get identty information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Step 1** Get identity information
```

> Send the request to the identity endpoint `/run/aziot/identityd.sock`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send the request to the identity endpoint, `/run/aziot/identityd.sock`.
```

> If the connection is refused, retry after few seconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the connection is refused, retry after few seconds.
```

> _Prerequisite_: You may need to first install `jq` (e.g. `sudo apt install jq`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Prerequisite_: You may need to first install `jq` (e.g. `sudo apt install jq`).
```

```bash

> # Calling IS as the root user to skip the need to add my user to the requisite security groups for IS/KS/CS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Call IS as the root user to skip the need to add my user to the requisite groups for IS/KS/CS. 
```

identity="$(sudo curl --unix-socket '/run/aziot/identityd.sock' 'http://identityd.sock/identities/modules/mymodule?api-version=2020-09-01&type=aziot')" 

> # From the response retrieve the hubname, gatewayHost, device and module identity, authentication type, and the key handle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# From the response, retrieve hubName, gatewayHost, device and module identity, authentication type, and key handle.
```

hub_name="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.hubName')"
gateway_host="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.gatewayHost')"
device_id="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.deviceId')"
module_id="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.moduleId // ""')"
auth_type="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.auth.type')"
key_handle="$(<<< "$identity" jq -r '.spec.auth.keyHandle')"
```

> #### **Step 2** Build a bas64 encoded resource uri

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Step 2** Build a base64-encoded resource URI
```

> When generating the signed token to connect to IoT Hub, the **message** parameter given to the Key Service's `/sign` API is a base-64 encoded value. It is created by concatenating the `resource_uri` with your desired token expiration. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating the signed token to connect to IoT Hub, the **message** parameter given to the Key Service's `/sign` API is a base64-encoded value. It is created by concatenating the `resource_uri` with your desired token expiration. For example:
```

```bash

> # URL encode the resource of hub + device + module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# URL-encode the resource of hub + device + module
```

> # If we were doing this for the device identity the resource_uri wouldn't include the '/modules/%s'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# If we were doing this for the device identity, the resource_uri wouldn't include the '/modules/%s'
```

resource_uri="$(printf '%s/devices/%s/modules/%s' "$hub_name" "$device_id" "$module_id" | jq -sRr @uri)"

# Using an expiry of 1 day from today
expiry="$(bc <<< "$(date +%s) + 60 * 60 * 24")"

> # Construct the full message to be signed which is a url encoded resource URI concatenated with the expiry and then base64 encoded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Construct the full message to be signed, which is a URL-encoded resource URI concatenated with the expiry, and then base64-encoded
```

signature_data="$(printf '%s\n%s' "$resource_uri" "$expiry" | base64 -w 0)"
```

More details on how the IoT Hub service interprets this signed message can be found in the docs on [Security tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-security#security-tokens). 

> #### **Step 3** Get a signed token from the keys service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **Step 3** Get a signed token from the Keys Service
```

> Send a request to the key service endpoint `/run/aziot/keyd.sock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a request to the Keys Service endpoint, `/run/aziot/keyd.sock`.
```

If the connection is refused, go back to Step 1 since IoT Hub device information could have changed.

Otherwise, parse the `signature` from the resposne.

```bash

> # Request the key service sign the message and then parse the 'signature' from the response and url decode it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Request the Keys Service sign the message, and then parse the 'signature' from the response and URL-decode it.
```

signature="$(
    sudo curl --unix-socket '/run/aziot/keyd.sock' \
        -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' --data-raw "$(
            jq -cn --arg 'keyHandle' "$key_handle" --arg 'message' "$signature_data" '{
                "keyHandle": $keyHandle,
                "algorithm": "HMAC-SHA256",
                "parameters": {
                    "message": $message,
                },
            }'

>         )" 'http://keyd.sock/sign?api-version=2020-09-01' |

Reviewer: We recently bumped the API version for KS. `2020-09-01` will still work, but I advise updating this to the latest.

Author: AFAIK we haven't released a patch or updated package for 1.2 that would include the new API.  Until then I'll plan to use the minimum version that works.  

In our API docs we should be vigilant about calling out which APIs are available on older versions and not just the latest.  We may not have a way to easily gate updates to the docs with our releases, but it's easier for someone consuming the docs if the docs are in sync with what is officially released rather than the current state of what is checked in.

        jq '.signature' -r |
        sed -e 's|+|%2b|g' -e 's|/|%2f|g' -e 's|=|%3d|g'
)"
sas_token="$(printf 'sr=%s&se=%s&sig=%s' "$resource_uri" "$expiry" "$signature")"
```

#### **Step 4**: Create the full connection string

> If the `gatewayHost` retrieved from the identity information is the same as the `hubName`, then the device is configured to connect directly to IoT Hub. Alternatively, if they differ then the device is configured to be behind a gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `gatewayHost` retrieved from the identity information is the same as the `hubName`, then the device is configured to connect directly to IoT Hub. Alternatively, if they differ, then the device is configured behind a gateway.
```

```bash
# Note that the 'SharedAccessSignature' appears both in the connection string and in the value for it.
sas="SharedAccessSignature $sas_token"

> if [ $hub_name = $gateway_host ]; then

Reviewer: Might want to quote these: `[ "$hub_name" = "$gateway_host" ]`

    # Connecting directly to Hub.
    echo "HostName=$hub_name;DeviceId=$device_id;ModuleId=$module_id;SharedAccessSignature=$sas"
else
    # In a nested configuration. Include the gateway name in the connection string.
    echo "HostName=$hub_name;DeviceId=$device_id;ModuleId=$module_id;SharedAccessSignature=$sas;GatewayHost=$gateway_host"
fi

```

> **Note**
>

> > Portions of the script above come from the [iothub-get-twin.sh](https://github.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/blob/main/ci/iothub-get-twin.sh) script used in the tests for the identity service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Portions of the script above come from the [iothub-get-twin.sh](https://github.com/Azure/iot-identity-service/blob/main/ci/iothub-get-twin.sh) script used in the tests for the Identity Service.
```

Also, not sure this note is important. Would customers care where this code comes from?

Author: Removing it.

#### **Step 5** Connect to IoT Hub using the SDK

Connect to IoT Hub using the C SDK's [IoTHubDeviceClient_LL_CreateFromConnectionString](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/iot-c-sdk-ref/iothub-device-client-ll-h/iothubdeviceclient-ll-createfromconnectionstring) API.

#### **Step 6** After disconnect,

Repeat all steps starting from _Step 1_ above.

## Using the C SDK to connect to IoT Hub for SaS authentication

> The steps below are how to use the C SDK in your agent to establish IoT Hub connectivity using a module identity and using the SharedAccessSignature connection string method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps below use the C SDK to establish IoT Hub connectivity with a module identity and the SharedAccessSignature connection string method.
```

Author: I'm going to remove this section since it essentially repeats the prior steps 1 - 6.

The general SDK flow is as follows:

-   Get identity
    -   Set REST API URL
        -   /identities/identity
    -   Set corresponding JSON payload
        -   No payload for identity
    -   Send request to identity endpoint `/run/aziot/identityd.sock`
        -   If the connection is refused, retry after few seconds
    -   On a successful response, parse response (example response in the flow diagram)
        -   Hub hostname
        -   Gateway host name
        -   Device Id
        -   Module Id
        -   Key handle

> -   Build a base64-encoded resource uri

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Build a base64-encoded resource URI
```

>     -   Using process defined [above](#Step-2-Build-a-bas64-encoded-resource-uri)

Reviewer: Link will be wrong if you fix the misspelled `base64`.

-   Get signed token
    -   Set REST API URL
        -   `/sign`
    -   Set corresponding JSON payload
        -   JSON payload for /sign:
            -   Key handle from Get identity call above
            -   Algorithm: "HMAC-SHA256"
            -   Parameters:

>                 -   Message: "&lt;base64-encoded resource uri&gt;"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                -   Message: "&lt;base64-encoded resource URI&gt;"
```

>     -   Send request for key service endpoint `/run/aziot/keyd.sock`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   Send request for Keys Service endpoint `/run/aziot/keyd.sock`
```

        -   If connection refused, go back to Get identity step above (since IoT Hub device information could have changed)
    -   On successful response, parse response
        -   SaS token
-   Create a `sas_token` following these patterns:
    -   Device e.g. `"SharedAccessSignature sr=myhubname.azure-devices.net/devices/mydeviceid&sig=hIuFfERqcDBnu84EwVlF01JfiaRvH6A20dMWQW6T4fg%3D&se=1609459200"`
    -   Module e.g. `"SharedAccessSignature sr=myhubname.azure-devices.net/devices/mydeviceid/modules/mymoduleid&sig=hIuFfERqcDBnu84EwVlF01JfiaRvH6A20dMWQW6T4fg%3D&se=1609459200"`
    -   Note that `sig` needs to be percent-encoded, but `sr` does not
    -   Also note that the `SharedAccessSignature` is part of both the parameter name AND the parameter value in the connection string below. So,
        -   `"SharedAccessSignature=SharedAccessSignature sr=..."`
-   Build IoT Hub connection string with responses from two API calls above

>     -   `"HostName=<host_name>;DeviceId=<device_id>;SharedAccessSignature=<sas_token>"`

Reviewer: Do you not need the HTML codes (gt; and lt;) here? If not, why use them on line 386?

    -   `"HostName=<host_name>;DeviceId=<device_id>;ModuleId=<module_id>;SharedAccessSignature=<sas_token>"`
-   Connect to IoT Hub using C SDK API [IoTHubDeviceClient_LL_CreateFromConnectionString](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/iot-c-sdk-ref/iothub-device-client-ll-h/iothubdeviceclient-ll-createfromconnectionstring)
-   After disconnect, repeat all steps starting from Get identity above

> ## Using the C SDK to connect to IoT Hub for X509 authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the C SDK to connect to IoT Hub for X.509 authentication
```

> Currently, host processes using module identities can only authenticate against IoT Hub using SaS authentication method (only method supported by IoT service as of Fe semester). The C SDK team has added support for openssl engines to ensure host processes can perform TLS authentication against IoT Hub. Key Service’s openssl engine will be required by host processes for TLS auth, since X509 private keys are not exposed outside the Key service. It will beneficial for host processes to support device X509 authentication for host processes in the short term (by registering as "device" principals), so that module x509 auth support can be easily added in the future. For code snippet samples for using openssl engines, please reach out to the C SDK team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, host processes using module identities can only authenticate against IoT Hub using the SaS authentication method (only method supported by IoT service as of Fe semester). The C SDK team has added support for OpenSSL engines to ensure host processes can perform TLS authentication against IoT Hub. Keys Service’s OpenSSL engine will be required by host processes for TLS authentication, since X.509 private keys are not exposed outside the Keys Service. It is beneficial for host processes to support device X.509 authentication for host processes in the short term (by registering as "device" principals), so that module X.509 authentication support can be easily added in the future. For code snippet samples for using OpenSSL engines, please reach out to the C SDK team.
```

- Do external users know what the `Fe semester` is? Might just want to put a date.

## Device and Module Provisioning

> The IS daemon is responsible for provisioning the device and modules. After a device has been successfully provisioned (either manually or via [DPS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-dps/about-iot-dps)), the IS daemon goes through a reconciliation process with Hub. The corresponding module identities for all processes registered with IS are automatically created in IoT Hub. This architecture enables you to pre-install your agent on a device. The corresponding module identity will appear in IoT Hub as part of the same logic device and your agent does not have to directly deal with the complexity of (re)provisioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IS daemon is responsible for provisioning the device and modules. After a device has been successfully provisioned (either manually or via [DPS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-dps/about-iot-dps)), the IS daemon goes through a reconciliation process with Hub. The corresponding module identities for all processes registered with IS are automatically created in IoT Hub. This architecture enables you to pre-install your agent on a device. The corresponding module identity will appear in IoT Hub as part of reconciliation and your agent does not have to directly deal with the complexity of (re)provisioning.
```
